

This repository contains the tools used to generate the data on [TravisTorrent](http://travistorrent.testroots.org):
These include the

1. Travis Poker (`bin/travis_poker.rb`), which pokes en-mass whether a project has a Travis build history,
2. Travis Harvester which downloads Travis build logs (`bin/travis_harvester.rb`),
3. Travis BuildLog Analyzer (`bin/buildlog_analysis.rb`)
4. Build Metadata extractor (`bin/build_data_extraction.rb`)

### Installing required dependencies

The following works on Debian Jessie

```
$ sudo apt-get install ruby ruby-dev bundler pkg-config libmysqlclient-dev cmake libcurl4-openssl-dev libssl-dev libicu-dev parallel
$ git clone git@github.com:TestRoots/travistorrent-tools.git
$ cd travistorrent-tools
$ sudo bundle install
```

### Running the data extraction process

The file `projects.txt` contains a list of non-toy, non-fork, active GitHub projects.  It was retrieved from GHTorrent by running the query:

```sql
select u.login, p.name, p.language, count(*)
from projects p, users u, watchers w
where
    p.forked_from is null and
    p.deleted is false and
    w.repo_id = p.id and
    u.id = p.owner_id
group by p.id
having count(*) > 50
order by count(*) desc
```

You can then call the Travis Poker to see whether these projects use Travis CI or not. Projects will be annotated with a binary flag indicating this.

To further process the list generated by Travis Poker, do
```bash
grep "true" results.csv > travis_enabled
sed -i 's/\([^,]*\),\([^,]*\).*/\1 \2/' travis_enabled
```

This list can now be passed to the Travis Harvester, for which we use parallel.

Retrieve build logs of 20 GH project simultaneously (beware, depending on your network connection this puts a heavy load on Travis-CI!)
```bash
cat travis-enabled | parallel -j 20 --colsep ' ' ruby bin/travis_harvester.rb
```

### Extracting GitHub features about each build

To extract features for one project, do

 ```bash
 ruby -Ibin bin/build_data_extraction.rb stripe brushfire github-token
 ```
 where `github-token` is a valid GitHub OAuth token used to download information
 about commits. To configure access to the required GHTorrent MySQL and MongoDB
 databases, copy `config.yaml.tmpl` to `config.yaml` and edit accordingly. You
 can have direct access to the GHTorrent MySQL and MongoDB databases using
 [this link](http://ghtorrent.org/services.html).

To extract features for multiple projects in parallel, you need

* A file (`project-list`) of projects, in the format specified above
* A file (`token-list`) of one or more Github tokens, one token per line

Then, run
```ruby
./bin/project_token.rb project-list token-list | sort -R > projects-tokens
./bin/all_projects.sh -p 4 -d data projects-tokens
```

this will create a file with tokens equi-distributed to projects
a directory `data`, and start 4 instanced of the `build_data_extraction.rb` script

### Analyzing Buildlogs
Our buildlog dispatcher handles everything that you typically want: It generates one convenient output file (a CSV) per project directory, and invokes an automatically dispatched correct buildlog analyzer. You can start the per-project analysis (typically on a directory structured checkedout through travis-harvester) via
```ruby
ruby bin/buildlog_analysis.rb directory-of-project-to-analyze
```

To start to analyze all buildlogs, parallel helps us again:
```bash
ls build_logs | parallel -j 5 ruby bin/buildlog_analysis.rb "build_logs/{}"
```

### Travis Breaking the Build
http://docs.travis-ci.com/user/customizing-the-build/

broken <- (errored|failed)
errored <- infrastructure
failed <- tests
canceled <- user abort

### Breaking the Build

If any of the commands in the first four stages returns a non-zero exit code, Travis CI considers the build to be broken.

When any of the steps in the before_install, install or before_script stages fails with a non-zero exit code, the build is marked as errored.

When any of the steps in the script stage fails with a non-zero exit code, the build is marked as failed.

Note that the script section has different semantics to the other steps. When a step defined in script fails, the build doesn’t end right away, it continues to run the remaining steps before it fails the build.

Currently, neither the after_success nor after_failure have any influence on the build result. Travis have plans to change this behaviour
